DXCDT-484: v0 → v1 Migration Guide (#744)
auth0/terraform-provider-auth0: MIGRATION_GUIDE.md

# Migration Guide

- [Upgrading from v0.x → v1.0](#upgrading-from-v0x--v10)
- [Upgrading from v0.49.0 → v0.50.0](#upgrading-from-v0490--v0500)
- [Upgrading from v0.48.0 → v0.49.0](#upgrading-from-v0480--v0490)
- [Upgrading from v0.47.0 → v0.48.0](#upgrading-from-v0470--v0480)
- [Upgrading from v0.46.0 → v0.47.0](#upgrading-from-v0460--v0470)

---

## Upgrading from v0.x → v1.0

> Several breaking changes have been introduced with v1.0. Please refer to the sections below on how to migration from v0.x.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several breaking changes have been introduced with v1.0. Please refer to the sections below on how to migrate from v0.x.
```

- [Client Authentication Method](#client-authentication-method)
- [Resource Server Scopes](#resource-server-scopes)
- [User Roles](#user-roles)
- [Role Permissions](#role-permissions)
- [Client Grant Scopes](#client-grant-scopes)
- [Actions Node 18 Runtime Beta](#actions-node-18-runtime-beta)

### Importing Multi-ID Resources

Importing of resources that are comprised of multiple IDs (ex: `auth0_user_role` - user ID and role ID) will be
separated by a double colon (`::`) instead of the previous single colon `:` separator. This change establishes a
convention for all resource import while enabling IDs with colons in them.

<table>
<tr>
<th>Before (v0.x)</th>
<th>After (v1.0)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

```sh
terraform import auth0_user_role.user_role "auth0|111111111111111111111111:role_123"
```

</td>
<td>

```sh
terraform import auth0_user_role.user_role "auth0|111111111111111111111111::role_123"
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

### Global Client

The `auth0_global_client` resource and data source have been removed. They primarily managed the custom login page via
the `custom_login_page` and `custom_login_page_on` attributes. Instead, this functionality has moved to the

> `auth0_pages` resource and datasource. This change elevates the custom login pages as a more prominent feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`auth0_pages` resource and data source. This change elevates the custom login pages as a more prominent feature.
```

    url           = "https://example.com"
  }
}
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

### Client Addons

SSO integrations facilitated through the sub-properties on the `addons` property on the `auth0_client` resource have
been more formally typed. These integrations are still supported but need to adhere to the defined schema. In most
cases, this will simply require the removal of the `=` block assignment.

<table>
<tr>
<th>Before (v0.x)</th>
<th>After (v1.0)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

```terraform
resource "auth0_client" "my_client" {
  # ...

  addons {
    slack = {
      team = "travel0"
    }
    
    samlp {
      logout = {
        callback = "https://example.com/callback"
        slo_enabled = "true"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</td>
<td>

```terraform
resource "auth0_client" "my_client" {
  # ...

  addons {
    slack { # Note removal of `=`
      team = "travel0"
    }

    samlp {
      logout {
        callback = "https://example.com/callback"
        slo_enabled = true
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

### Email Provider

The `auth0_email` resource has been renamed to `auth0_email_provider` to disambiguate from email templates and generally

> provide a descriptive name and the `api_user` field has been removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
provide a more descriptive name. Also, the `api_user` field has been removed.
```

<table>
<tr>
<th>Before (v0.x)</th>
<th>After (v1.0)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

```terraform
resource "auth0_email" "my_email_provider" {
  # ...
}
```

</td>
<td>

```terraform
resource "auth0_email_provider" "my_email_provider" {
  # ...
}
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

### Client Secret Rotation

Rotation of client secrets through the `client_secret_rotation_trigger` property on the `auth0_client` resource has been
removed. Instead, follow the [Client Secret Rotation Guide](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/auth0/auth0/latest/docs/guides/client_secret_rotation)
to achieve this functionality.

> The removal of the `client_secret_rotation_trigger` property ensures best practice for a more secure Auth0 tenant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The removal of the `client_secret_rotation_trigger` property follows the best practices for a more secure Auth0 tenant.
```

<th>Before (v0.x)</th>
<th>After (v1.0)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

```terraform
resource "auth0_tenant" "my_tenant" {
  universal_login {
    colors {
      primary         = "#0059d6"
      page_background = "#000000"
    }
  }
}
```

</td>
<td>

```terraform
resource "auth0_branding" "my_branding" {
  colors {
    primary         = "#0059d6"
    page_background = "#000000"
  }
}
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

### Trigger Bindings

The `auth0_trigger_binding` resource has been renamed to `auth0_trigger_actions` for clarity and consistency with the
`auth0_trigger_action` (1:1) resource. To migrate, simply rename the resource from `auth0_trigger_binding` to
`auth0_trigger_actions`.

<table>
<tr>
<th>Before (v0.x)</th>
<th>After (v1.0)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

```terraform
resource "auth0_trigger_binding" "login_flow" {
	#...
}
```

</td>
<td>

```terraform
resource "auth0_trigger_actions" "login_flow" {
	#...
}
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

### Organization Member Roles

The `roles` property on the `auth0_organization_member` resource has been removed. To manage an organization member's
roles, leverage the `auth0_organization_member_role` or `auth0_organization_member_roles` resources instead.

> The`auth0_organization_member_role` resource (singular) manages a 1:1 relationship between a member and a role while the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `auth0_organization_member_role` resource (singular) manages a 1:1 relationship between a member and a role while the
```

  name            = "Firstname Lastname"
  email           = "test@test.com"
  password        = "passpass$12$12"
  roles           = [auth0_role.admin.id]
}
```

</td>
<td>

```terraform
# Example:
resource "auth0_role" "admin" {
  name        = "admin"
  description = "Administrator"
}

resource "auth0_role" "owner" {
  name        = "owner"
  description = "Owner"
}

resource "auth0_user" "user" {
  connection_name = "Username-Password-Authentication"
  username        = "unique_username"
  name            = "Firstname Lastname"
  email           = "test@test.com"
  password        = "passpass$12$12"
}

# Use the auth0_user_roles to manage a 1:many
# relationship between the user and its roles.
resource auth0_user_roles user_roles {
  user_id = auth0_user.user.id
  roles   = [ auth0_role.admin.id, auth0_role.owner.id ]
}

# Use the auth0_user_role to manage a 1:1
# relationship between the user and its role.
resource auth0_user_role user_admin {
  user_id = auth0_user.user.id
  role_id = auth0_role.admin.id
}

resource auth0_user_role user_owner {
  user_id = auth0_user.user.id
  role_id = auth0_role.owner.id
}
```

</td>
</tr>
</table>

### Role Permissions

> The `permissions` property on the `auth0_role` resource has been removed. Managing permissions associated with a role,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `permissions` property on the `auth0_role` resource has been removed. To manage permissions associated with a role,
```
